Practical no. 1
Aim: Creating a Forensic Image using FTK Imager/Encase Imager :
- Creating Forensic Image
- Check Integrity of Data
- Analyze Forensic Image
Steps:
1.	Download and Install AccessData FKT Imager
2.	Now create two folder source and dest
 
3.	Add some data in source folder(text file or image)
4.	Open FTK Imager and Click File, and then Create Disk Image, or click the button on the tool bar
 
5.	Select the source you want to make an image of and click Next ((select content of a folder)
 
6.	Select source to create image(browse and select source folder we have created earlier) and click on finish
 
7.	Now in create image dialog click on Add button to add destination where image will be created
8.	Provide dummy case information here and click on next
 
9.	Now browse and select dest folder, give an image filename and set image fragment size to 15 and click on finish
10.	After that image destination will be add then click on start
 
11.	Image will be created
 
12.	To add evidence image in FTK Imager, click on file and then add new evidence
13.	Select source type as contents of a folder and click on next
14.	Now browse and select dest folder where we have created image and click on finish
 
15.	Evidence will be added, to view data expand the dest folder in evidence tree tab 
 
Conclusion: 	Hence we have created forensic image using FTK Imager and added evidence into FTK Imager for further analysis
 
Practical no. 2
Aim:
Data Acquisition: - Perform data acquisition using: - USB Write Blocker + FTK Imager

Steps:
Enable USB Write Block in Windows 10, 8 and 7 using registry
1.	Press the Windows key + R to open the Run box. Type regedit and press Enter
2.	This will open the Registry Editor. Navigate to the following key:
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control
3.	Right-click on the Control key in the left pane, select New -> Key.
4.	Name it as StorageDevicePolicies.
 
5.	Select the StorageDevicePolicies key in the left pane, then right-click on any empty space in the right pane and select New -> DWORD (32-bit) Value. Name it WriteProtect.
6.	Double-click on WriteProtect and then change the value data from 0 to 1.
 
7.	The new setting takes effect immediately. Every user who tries to copy / move data to USB devices or format USB drive will get the error message “The disk is write-protected”.
8.	We can only open the file in the USB drive for reading, but it’s not allowed to modify and save the changes back to USB drive.
Any option for modifying file on usb drive will be not visible(new, delete,cut)
If you try to edit and save text file in notepad you will get error like this
 
9.	Now Create image of the USB drive using FTK imager
10.	Open ftk imager and click on file and then create disk file and select source as physical drive
 
11.	Select usb drive and click on finish
 
12.	Now Click on add button to add new destination to create disk image, select destination image type as Raw(dd)
 
13.	Select destination path and give an file name for image and click on next, image destination will be added
 
14.	Click on start, it will take some time to create disk image(depends on usb size)

 

Conclusion: Hence we have protected write access to usb drive and create usb drive image.
 
Practical no. 3
Aim: Forensics Case Study: - Solve the Case study (image file) provide in lab using Autopsy

Steps:
1.	Download and install Autopsy
2.	Before we start using Autopsy we have to create disk image or you can use usb image created in practical 2. Else create new logical image.
3.	Now open autopsy and create new case
 
4.	Provide case information and optional information then click on finish

 
5.	New case will be created, in case window click on add data source
6.	Leave host as default and click on next
 
7.	Select source type as disk image
 
8.	Browse and select disk image we have created earlier and click on next
 
9.	Select all modules and click on next
 
10.	Data source will be added
 
11.	Expand the tree from left side panel to view the files and then expand the deleted files node
 
12.	To recover the file, go to view node-> Deleted Files node , here select any file and right click on it than select Extract Files option.
 
13.	Click on Generate Report from autopsy window and Select the Excel format and click on next
 
14.	Select report type as excel report
 
15.	Select data source
 
16.	Leave report setting as default and click on finish, report will be create
 
 
Conclusion: Hence we have done case study of autopsy
 
Practical no. 4
Aim: Capturing and analyzing network packets using Wireshark (Fundamentals): - Identification the live network - Capture Packets - Analyze the captured packets
Steps: 
1.	Open Wireshark and click on network interface you want to capture data from(eg. Wifi or Ethernet  
 
 

2.	Now go on browser and open any unsecured website i.e www.httpforever.com and perform some activity on the website.
3.	Now come back to Wireshark and enter http in the search bar.
 
4.	Now click on the get request and see the details.
 
 
Practical no. 5
Aim: Web Browser Forensics 
•	Web Browser working 
•	Forensics activities on browser 
•	Cache / Cookies analysis 
•	Last Internet activity

Steps: 
1.	Download and install Browser History Examiner
2.	Start install Browser History Examiner and click on capture history
 
3.	Select Capture history from this computer and click on next
 
4.	Now select user profile, Browsers and data you want to capture, also provide destination to store captured files/data and then click on capture.
 
5.	Once history capture is completed it will ask to load captured history, click on yes to load history then history will be loaded into dashboard
 
6.	Click on Cookies option in left sidebar to view browsers cookies
 

7.	Click on Cached images to view cached images in browser
 
8.	Click on Bookmarks to check bookmarked urls
 
9.	Click on cached files to view cached webpages files
 
10.	To add record to report, right click on any record and click on add to report
 
11.	And to generate report, click on file> report> save as pdf or html

Generate report 
 
12.	To export report, click on file> export>select your preferred format, select data you want to export in report
  
 
Conclusion: Hence we have performed web browser forensic analysis using browser history examiner
 
Practical No-6
Aim: Using Sysinternals tools for Network Tracking and Process Monitoring: -Check Sysinternals tools -Monitor Live Processes -Capture RAM-Capture -TCP/UDP packets -Monitor Hard Disk -Monitor Virtual Memory -Monitor Cache Memory
Steps: 
1.	Check Sysinternals tools
Windows Sysinternals tools are utilities to manage, diagnose, troubleshoot, and monitor a Microsoft Windows environment
The following are the categories of Sysinternals Tools:
•	File and Disk Utilities
•	Networking Utilities
•	Process Utilities 
•	Security Utilities
•	System Information Utilities 
•	Miscellaneous Utilities

2.	Monitor Live Processes:
a.	Open ProcMan tool
 
b.	Click on filter > filter
 
c.	Add some filter (like firefox.exe or chrome.exe)
 
d.	Click on Tools> Process tree
 
e.	Click on Tools> File summary
 

3.	Capture TCP/UDP packets
a.	Open tcpview tool
 
b.	Right click on any packet > whois  
c.	Information about packet
 
4.	Monitor Virtual Memory
a.	Open the Diskmon tool(as administrator)
 
5.	Monitor Cache Memory
a.	Open the VMMap tool and select process to launch
 
b.	Process information
 
Conclusion: Hence we have studied how to use Sysinternals tools for Network Tracking and Process Monitoring
 
Practical no. 7
Aim: Recovering and Inspecting deleted files
•	Check for Deleted Files
•	Recover the Deleted Files
•	Analyzing and Inspecting the recovered files
Steps:
1.	Before creating disk image, add some files in that disk and delete some of them so we will able to recover deleted files. I have deleted duck.jpg and text1.txt
 
2.	Open AccessData FTK Imager. Click on File > Create Disk Image.
3.	Select source type as logical drive
 
4.	Select source drive
 
5.	click on add destination, select Raw(dd) and click on next
6.	provide case information and click on next
7.	select destination folder and enter name for disk image file and set image fragment size to 100, click on finish new destination will be added
 
8.	click on start, it will start creating disk image and image will be created
 

9.	Now open autopsy and create new case
 
10.	Provide case information and optional information then click on finish

 
11.	New case will be created, in case window click on add data source
12.	Leave host as default and click on next
 
13.	Select source type as disk image
 
14.	Browse and select disk image we have created earlier and click on next
 
15.	Select all modules and click on next
16.	Data source will be added
17.	Expand the tree from left side panel to view the files and then expand the deleted files node
 
18.	Select and right click on files you want recover and click on export file(s) option
 
19.	Select folder to export files and deleted files will be recovered
 
Conclusion: hence we have successfully recovered deleted files using autopsy
